<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>IV</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction z3998:drama">
		<section id="act-4" epub:type="chapter z3998:scene">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Act</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</span>
			</h2>
			<p>Scene.⁠—A room in <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton’s</b> house; the next morning. It is a lofty anteroom, with very large folding doors centre, which, when opened, disclose a large reception room beyond. There are doors down right and left and a window up right. The room is severe in its Colonial dignity, very large panels being either side of the folding door, and on the walls right and left. The general tone is of a yellowish cream relieved with gray. A harpsichord is on stage down right centre and a chair in front of it. Black console tables with a pair of marble vases stand against the walls right and left of centre doors at back. Hanging above the consoles in black oval frames are two old-fashioned pictures of flowers. A three-piece Chippendale settee is against the wall left above the door. Lace curtains and blue rep hangings on window up right. When centre doors are opened you see a large handsome mantel at back with windows right and left hung with red rep curtains. Two small square tables in front of windows, and a large mahogany table in centre in front of fireplace. Ornaments on mantel and vases on small tables. The doors are closed.</p>
			<table>
				<tbody>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<p>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">General Schuyler</b> discovered standing in centre of room dejectedly, with newspaper clutched in hand. Boy calling “Paper!” heard through window. Boy calls, “<i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Federalist!</i> <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Federalist!</i> <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Philadelphia Evening Sun!</i> Confession of Alexander Hamilton!” <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</b> goes and slams down window. Returns to centre and looks at newspaper. Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</b> down on right. She has evidently been crying. She goes up to her father and kisses him sympathetically. He instantly puts paper behind back.</i>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</td>
						<td>Where’s Betsy?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr> of him.</i> Still in her room.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</td>
						<td>I wish Alexander would come.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</td>
						<td>He’s still locked in his study.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</td>
						<td>He’s been writing out since early morning. Can’t you get him out?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</td>
						<td>I’ve tried. I told him there were people waiting to see him. He called out, “Let them wait.”</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</td>
						<td>But this room <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">pointing to doors up stage</i> is full of men⁠—Senators, Congressmen, and heaven knows who besides. It’s not like him to run away.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</td>
						<td>He won’t run away.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</td>
						<td>The thing’s done. He’s got to face the music.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</td>
						<td>He’ll face it.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</td>
						<td>How does Betsy seem now?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</td>
						<td>She’s so deadly calm. I wish she’d cry or rave⁠—be more human.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</td>
						<td>She’s determined to go?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</td>
						<td>Yes, I can do nothing with her.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Looking at paper.</i> It’s a bad business⁠—a bad business. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Putting paper behind him quickly.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R. C.</abbr></i> You needn’t hide that paper. I’m not ashamed of it.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Surprised.</i> You’re not?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Coming to him.</i> Oh, father, isn’t he wonderful?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</td>
						<td>Who?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</td>
						<td>Alexander.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</td>
						<td>Well⁠—er⁠—</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</td>
						<td>Oh, I wish he were my husband⁠—I should be proud of him.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</td>
						<td>Angelica, if you’d only been a man⁠—if you’d been my eldest son instead of my eldest daughter, I’d have taken you by the hand and called you a fine fellow <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">shakes hands with her</i>, but those are hardly the proper sentiments for a young married woman.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</td>
						<td>If he were my husband, I’d show him how a woman can forgive.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</td>
						<td>But he isn’t your husband, and that makes all the difference. Don’t be hard on Betsy. It’s easy enough for one woman to forgive another woman’s husband. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Zekiel</b> door <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr></i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Zekiel</td>
						<td>Speakah Mullenburg an’ Mistah Morris has jes’ come.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</td>
						<td>Did you say <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Hamilton was engaged?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Zekiel</td>
						<td>Yessah, but they said lack de odders dat dey’d wait, so I done showed ’em into de room wid de rest of ’em.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</td>
						<td>Very well, Zekiel.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Zekiel</td>
						<td>They ain’ goin’ to do nothin’ to Mars’ Hamilton, is dey, sah?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</td>
						<td>No, no, no!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Zekiel</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Going out.</i> Wal, I done wish dey wouldn’t all stan’ roun’ waitin’ for him. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit, <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr></i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Up stage <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R. C.</abbr></i> I’m glad I’m not your eldest son, after all, father.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</td>
						<td>What is it now, Angelica?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Indicating toward inner room <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">C.</abbr></i> If these are men, I’m glad I’m not one of the tribe. All waiting around to kick a man when he’s down.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Crossing in front to <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr> Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</b> door <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr>, dressed for the street.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</td>
						<td>Oh, there you are, Betsy! Going out?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Assumed brightness.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R. C.</abbr></i> Yes, I’m going, father. Has Alexander come down?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</td>
						<td>Not yet. Where are you going?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td>I’m going to Albany, father, to wait for you. I’m going home.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</td>
						<td>Won’t you stay and see him?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td>Things for him will go on just as if I had not come back from Europe. That is all. He can resume that life. The coach for Albany leaves at noon.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">C.</abbr></i> You’d better see him, Betsy.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R. C.</abbr></i> I’ve seen the morning paper.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L. C.</abbr></i> And so have I⁠—read every word of it⁠—twice.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</td>
						<td>Well, if your sister’s determined to go, you had better get your things together, Angelica, and go with her. She can’t go alone.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</td>
						<td>Why don’t <em>you</em> go with her?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</td>
						<td>I can’t leave Alexander at a time like this.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</td>
						<td>Well, neither can I. Betsy’s the only one who can leave him, so she must go alone.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</td>
						<td>Come, come, Angelica. You mustn’t talk like that.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Coming to <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</b>.</i> Don’t, father. I’d much rather go alone. I can’t bear to see or speak to anybody, I’m so ashamed⁠—I can’t even face you.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Going toward <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr></i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Stopping her <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">C.</abbr></i> Betsy, take off that hat and stand by him. Are you going to leave that man?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td>Yes.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</td>
						<td>Good. He doesn’t need you. He never needed you less. If you can’t appreciate his courage and bravery, you are no fit mate for him. God knows there are few enough men who are willing to sacrifice everything for the truth. If you’re going, go. Go and join those men in there who are all waiting to take a peck at him.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</td>
						<td>Angelica!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</td>
						<td>I know. Alexander’s done a wicked, disgraceful thing. That’s what makes the difference between a human being and a whitewashed saint. I’m a human being myself, and I’m going to wait here for Alexander. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Zekiel</b>, <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr></i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</td>
						<td>Well?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Zekiel</td>
						<td>It’s a lady callin’, Mis’ Betsy.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Interested.</i> Who is it?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Zekiel</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Lamely.</i> It’s a⁠—<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Reynolds, ma’am.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr class="together">
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler<br/>
						Angelica</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Indignantly.</i> What?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td>Tell her <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Hamilton is out.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Zekiel</td>
						<td>She wants to see you, Mis’ Betsy.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Indignant.</i> I never in all my life!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">About to go toward <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr></i> I’ll soon settle her.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td>Wait a moment, father. I’ll see her.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Zekiel</b> going.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</td>
						<td>No, no, Zekiel.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Firmly.</i> Show her in, Zekiel. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Zekiel</b> exits <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr></i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</td>
						<td>Do you mean to say you’re going to see that disgraceful woman?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td>Yes. Will you and father go away, please?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</td>
						<td>But why? Why do you want to see her?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td>I want to see what she looks like. Perhaps there’s something of the human being in me, too.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</td>
						<td>Come on, Angelica. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</b> crosses to <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr> and opens door.</i> I’ve got two daughters and your dear mother at home, but I’ll be hanged if I understand the first thing about women.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exeunt <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</b> and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</b>. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</b>, in front of harpsichord, waits somewhat nervously. Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Zekiel</b> with <b epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Reynolds</b>.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Zekiel</td>
						<td><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Reynolds.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Reynolds</b> enters, pretty and demure. She waits for <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Zekiel</b> to go, looking to see that he’s gone before she speaks. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Zekiel</b> goes off. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</b> stands looking at <b epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Reynolds</b>.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Reynolds</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L. C.</abbr></i> You’re <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Hamilton, aren’t you? Mighty nice of you to see me.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td>What do you want?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Reynolds</td>
						<td>Why⁠—of course, you’ve seen the newspaper.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td>Yes.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Reynolds</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">With conscious pride.</i> Yes, it’s made quite a stir, hasn’t it? I came because I thought you might feel badly about it. I thought you might feel angry with him.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td>With whom?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Reynolds</td>
						<td>Why, with <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Hamilton. I don’t see how anyone could⁠—he’s so nice, but⁠—</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td>What is it you want to say?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Reynolds</td>
						<td>Well, I wouldn’t like you to be cross with him. You mustn’t blame him because it wasn’t his fault.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td>Whose fault was it?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Reynolds</td>
						<td>Well, it was mine in the end, but at first it was Reynolds’.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td>Reynolds?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Reynolds</td>
						<td>Yes, Reynolds arranged it because some of his friends⁠—political gentlemen⁠—wanted to get <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Hamilton talked about. And of course when I went I hadn’t an idea what he was like⁠—and when I found he was so nice, I half wished I hadn’t said I’d do it. But I’d given my word, you see⁠—and then you were away, and I’d never seen you. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Coming closer to look at her.</i> <em>You’re</em> pretty, too, aren’t you, only in a different way from me, and older. Don’t you hate to think of growing old?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Reynolds, have you no sense of right and wrong?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Reynolds</td>
						<td>Oh, yes, I know⁠—I know when I’m doing wrong⁠—but you see I have nobody to keep me straight. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">A little to <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">C.</abbr></i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td>Do you realize that you have broken this home and ruined a man’s life? Isn’t the thought of that enough to keep you straight?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Reynolds</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Turning and coming back.</i> Oh, you’re not going to leave him! You can’t do that. That’s why I came, because I thought you might be cross with him.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td>Have you no decency? Your name flaming in the newspaper⁠—your shame on the lips of every man and woman in the city!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Reynolds</td>
						<td>Well, yes, of course it is bad in a sense, but then it’s different for me to what it is for you, because it does give me a sort of a position. You see I’ve never had any position before, and now my name being in the paper coupled with Alexander Hamilton⁠—</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Stifled.</i> Oh⁠—</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Reynolds</td>
						<td>It’ll make Reynolds behave a good deal better to know me, I know. Mean old thing! Of course you’re good, with a good husband, and you don’t understand. I suppose everything depends on the way you’re brought up, doesn’t it? I don’t mean to be wicked⁠—I wish I wasn’t!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td>Good morning, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Reynolds.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Reynolds</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Naively.</i> Oh, that means I’m to go. But you won’t leave him, will you?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td>We have nothing more to discuss.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Reynolds</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Coming beside her and placing hand on chair.</i> <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Hamilton, I didn’t want to come here today and face you. It took some courage, I can tell you. But when I saw his confession this morning, I reckoned that took some courage too. I knew you had come home and that you’d see it all in the paper, and I made up my mind that you should know it was all a planned thing. I was set on to get him, anyway; but when I saw him and spoke to him and he thought I was in trouble and was so kind to me, I just fell in love with him and I didn’t mean to let him go.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td>How can you stand there and tell me that?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Reynolds</td>
						<td>Because I don’t want you to be hard on him. He’s a good man⁠—but I made up my mind that he shouldn’t get away from me, so he isn’t to blame, is he?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</b> and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</b> hurriedly, <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr> <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</b> goes up to <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R. C.</abbr> at back. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</b> remains at door.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</td>
						<td>Alexander has left his room. I think it would be better if I let this young woman out by the side door. This way, please.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Reynolds</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Crossing, turns to <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</b>.</i> You won’t leave him, will you?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td>Please go.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Reynolds</td>
						<td>If you only knew more about⁠—women, you’d forgive him.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Reynolds</b> exits with <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</b>. As she notices <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler’s</b> forbidding expression she assumes a nonchalant swagger as she exits. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</b> sinks into chair weeping.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Coming down to <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</b>.</i> Did you hear what that woman said?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td>Yes.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</td>
						<td>I think God put those words into her mouth for you to hear. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</b>, <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr> He carries the Bill on which he has been working. After a moment’s pause.</i> Alexander⁠—Betsy⁠—<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</b> puts his hand up and silences her, looking at <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</b> as though to say “Let Betsy speak.” <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</b> avoids looking at him and goes off <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr>, hurriedly, as though she feared she might break down. Going to him in tears.</i> Oh, Alexander, you’ve wronged her cruelly, but you stuck to the truth.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Taking her hands.</i> It’s a great price to pay⁠—but it was the only way the only way for me. But oh, Angelica⁠ ⁠… I’ve lost Betsy.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">They move away a little to <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr> together. Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</b> door <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr></i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">To <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R. C.</abbr></i> Alexander, you’ve got to see these people. There’s a whole crowd waiting for you.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>The wolves are clamoring at the door, eh? Well, they’ll die of overfeeding. Who are they?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</td>
						<td>Jefferson, Monroe, Madison⁠—</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>Ha! Ha! Of course.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</td>
						<td>John Jay, Robert Morris, John Marshall, Robert Livingston, and others besides.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>My friends, too. My friends of yesterday. Well, they are right. Have you seen them?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</td>
						<td>Not yet. Zekiel tried to get rid of them, but they seem to be waiting with grim determination in there, and won’t be moved.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>In here? <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Going toward doors at back.</i> Well, we’ll meet them this way. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Turns at doors.</i> You, dear friends, have been my allies⁠—<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">They come to him on either side.</i> I release you and I’ll stand alone⁠—not very strong, morally or physically, but we won’t lose our courage. Angelica, dear girl, you have been too good, too indulgent to me, and not fair to Betsy. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Coming down a step or two with her.</i> Go and give her what comfort you can. She will need it⁠—at first.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Goes toward door <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr></i> You’ll stay, father?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Testily, to cover his emotion.</i> Get out, get out! Why should I run away? I’m not a senator, thank God! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</b>, <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr></i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">With hand on door <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">C.</abbr></i> Father, after this, I shall disappear. I shall probably go back to the West Indies where I was born. I will write to you. You will hear from me, but you won’t see me. Here’s an end to the Federalist Party, and an end to my ambitions. My home is in ruins, but the honor of my office has been saved.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Breaking down. His head drops for a moment on his arms as he holds the handles of the doors. During that moment, <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</b> enters <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R. 1 E.</abbr> She has taken off her outdoor clothes. She comes forward to <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</b> with outstretched arms.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td>Alexander?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Turns to her, amazed; comes down and folds her tenderly in his arms.</i> Betsy!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td>I thought I could be proud and hard, but I can’t, dear⁠—I can’t.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Kissing her fervently.</i> My dear one! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Kisses her again. Then to <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</b>, who has come down <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr> of them.</i> Father, will you take Betsy, till this <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">indicating toward <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">C.</abbr> doors</i> is over?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td>No, Alexander. Let me stand by you.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Kisses her hand and she moves down <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr> He becomes a different man and going up he throws open the great centre doors. The room beyond is brilliantly lighted and the entire scene is lighted up. There is a murmur of conversation. The room beyond is filled with men⁠—about a dozen or more; some are seated. Present are <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Marshall</b>, <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Morris</b>, <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Jay</b>, <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</b>, <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</b>, <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Livingston</b>, <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Madison</b>, <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Muhlenburg</b>, <abbr>etc.</abbr></i> Gentlemen, good morning! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">He bows and they bow to him.</i> I regret that it was necessary for me to keep you waiting, but the publication of the morning paper did not immediately relieve me of my duties as Secretary of the Treasury and I had pressing work. But now, gentlemen, I am here for your consumption.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Comes down <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr> <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</b> comes down <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">C.</abbr> <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</b> behind him to <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr>, <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Jay</b> to <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr> inside doors. Others form group in centre at doors. Curtain warning.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</td>
						<td>Colonel Hamilton, you see before you political adherents, and political opponents⁠—friends and foes. But I have been requested to act as spokesman, and to express⁠—</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jefferson, I know how painful must be the duty which has fallen upon you. Let me relieve you of it. I am glad you are here⁠—both friends and foes. I know the object of your visit. You have come in advance of President Washington’s orders to relieve me of my office. You are justified, and I have no excuses to offer. I am pained and ashamed at this inglorious end of my career. But at least I must still have the courage of my political opinions. Since early morning I have been working to clarify this document. It is the Bill of the Government Assumption of States’ Debts without which this country has no honor. It will now be ignominiously defeated, but it is my conviction that the sense of justice of my opponents will one day compel its adoption, and so, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jefferson, I deliver it into your hands, sir, for safe keeping.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Hands document.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Without taking document.</i> Alexander Hamilton, you have mistaken our mission. I have been asked to tell you that every man in this room⁠—every man in the Cabinet, every man in the Senate⁠—is anxious to take you by the hand.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Coming forward and taking his hand.</i> Their admiration for your courage has overwhelmed their knowledge of your indiscretion. You need have no fear for your Bill now, Colonel Hamilton; your action will swing the whole country. I trust I know how to appreciate courage and how to acknowledge defeat.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Retires to <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr> Enter at back from <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr> two military aides. They remain in outer room and salute <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</b>. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Colonel Lear</b> follows them and comes down <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">C.</abbr></i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jay</td>
						<td>Here is Colonel Lear.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>Colonel Lear. You come from President Washington?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lear</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Saluting.</i> Colonel Hamilton, I have the honor to announce that President Washington has left the executive mansion and is now on his way here to express to you in person the high opinion he holds of your integrity. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Salutes and retires to <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Jay</b>.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</td>
						<td>Citizen Hamilton, our political opinions may differ in the future as in the past, but my impression of your conduct in this matter will remain glowing and unchangeable. It is the bravest thing a man ever did. Your vindication of the honor of the Secretary of the Treasury, the servant of the Nation, at the expense of the honor of Alexander Hamilton, the man, is a display of personal courage that will rouse the admiration of the world. Citizen Hamilton, I am proud to take your hand.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Shakes him by the hand. There is a buzz of approval.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jefferson, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Monroe, gentlemen. I am deeply moved by the expression of your sentiment toward me, but your decision to support this bill has stirred within me a still deeper feeling. By that decision you have established the credit and the honor of the United States. You have opened the floodgates of prosperity, a prosperity that will reach far beyond our present vision, a prosperity that will one day make America the market of the world. This is what I have striven for, and so, gentlemen, I tender you my felicitations and my thanks. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Turns to <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</b>.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">
								<b>Curtain</b>
							</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
				</tbody>
			</table>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
