<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Act I</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction z3998:drama">
		<section id="act-1" epub:type="chapter z3998:scene">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Act</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</span>
			</h2>
			<p>Scene.⁠—The Exchange Coffee House in Philadelphia, a morning in August, during Washington’s first administration. It is a great room with low ceiling and neatly sanded floor. Against wall, back, are cupboards with shining pewter tankards and dishes. Centre, a great fireplace with wide stone hearth, and high-backed settles on each side. Running up right, table with chairs left of it at irregular intervals. Long seat right of table. Right, back, tub stands on floor and contains melons, cucumbers, bottles of wine and a pitcher of milk, cooling. Over fireplace is a large crimson silk liberty cap, with these words above in large letters, “Sacred to Liberty.” On wall near is the following, in large print: “Breakfast⁠—two shillings (fifty cents). Dinner, with grog or toddy⁠—three shillings (seventy-five cents). Quart of Toddy⁠—one and six (thirty-six cents). Bottle of Porter⁠—two and six (sixty cents). Best Madeira⁠—six shillings a quart (one dollar, fifty).” Entrances upper right and left, also door <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L. 2 E.</abbr></p>
			<table>
				<tbody>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<p>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">A crowd of eight or ten men, including two or three Quakers, smoking churchwardens, discovered sitting, standing, drinking. Mainly men of the better class⁠—not rabble. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Melissa</b>, the barmaid, is serving drinks. Men come and go during act. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">James Reynolds</b>, a handsome, dissipated ne’er-do-well of about thirty-five, slightly the worse for liquor, but not drunk, is centre of a somewhat jeering crowd at top of table right. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</b>is up left talking to some men. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</b> is sitting at right of small table down left centre. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</b> is reading some manuscript⁠—possibly a draft of a Bill for Congress.</i>
							</p>
							<p>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">As curtain rises there is a general hubbub, <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Reynolds’</b> voice dominant. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">First Citizen</b> is seated on down stage end of long seat right of table <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr> A <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Citizen</b> is facing him, seated on a chair, another is on his left further upon seat. Three men are standing in a group up stage <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R. C.</abbr> An old man is seated on settle right of fireplace reading the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Federalist</i>. A man is seated on settle left of fireplace. He is playing chess with another who is seated on a chair in front of him. The chessboard is on a small round table between them. Two Quakers are standing near the door on the left. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</b> is conversing with them. The original flag of the United States, thirteen stars in circle and thirteen stripes, is on wall above inner door on left back. The chairs are all Windsor chairs, dark in color. Wainscoting about two feet six inches high. All woodwork in dark oak and walls and ceiling a neutral smoky gray.</i>
							</p>
							<p>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Round table down stage <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L. C.</abbr> with three chairs around it⁠—two armchairs and one single chair. The high-hack settles are set at an angle and start from the fireplace down stage on either side. They fit in between two thick upright posts which support a crossbeam. Similar posts are suggested right and left at either end of beam. Against the post <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R. C.</abbr> is a chair. Three windows in right flat and one similar window in same position in kitchen seen through entrance up right back. Shelves and bottles in kitchen. Through door left back is backing with door and beyond the street.</i>
							</p>
							<p>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">At rise <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Melissa</b> is gathering up tankards and wiping is off table right.</i>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Reynolds</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Standing on chair at upper end table <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr></i> I’m selling, I’m selling.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Man</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Seated <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr> of table <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr> down stage end.</i> Keep quiet there, will you?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Reynolds</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Loudly.</i> I’m selling, I’m selling. States’ securities for the price of printing. I’m selling⁠—I’m selling!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Man</td>
						<td>Can’t hear ourselves speak.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Reynolds</td>
						<td>What’s the use of keeping quiet? Where’s a gentleman to do business if he can’t do it at the Exchange Coffee House?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Man</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Seated down <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr> other side of table.</i> Oh⁠—where’s the gentleman?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Man</td>
						<td>Send the gentleman here.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Reynolds</td>
						<td>I’m the gentleman. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Laughter.</i> I’m selling, I’m selling!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Men</td>
						<td>Sit down.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Man</td>
						<td>Melissa, a tankard of porter, my dear.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Reynolds</td>
						<td>I’m selling, I’m selling!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Man</td>
						<td>Sit down, Reynolds! How can you be selling when there are no buyers! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Tallyrand</b> up <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr> at back.</i> Ask that gentleman if he’s nearly finished with the newspaper, Melissa.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">You see some business between <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Melissa</b> and the man with the newspaper. He refuses to give it up. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Melissa</b> then meets <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Tallyrand</b> <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">C.</abbr> at back. He has come on from street <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr></i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Reynolds</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Coming down stage <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">C.</abbr></i> Don’t any of you gentlemen want to make easy money? I’m offering you states’ securities for the price of the printing. Here’s a hundred dollars going to the highest bidder. Will anyone bid five? <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Holding up a paper.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Man</td>
						<td>What state is it on?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Reynolds</td>
						<td>South Carolina. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Laughter from the crowd.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Man</td>
						<td>I’ll give you sixpence for it. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Louder laughter.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Seated <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr> of round table, down stage <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr></i> Where’d you get all this paper all of a sudden, Reynolds?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">William <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">B.</abbr> Giles</b> is a small, squat man, with swarthy, dirty-looking skin and a sharp eye. His features are thick and his manner coarse. His boots are heavy, his dress untidy, and his voice loud. He has the air of a successful bully and prizefighter.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Reynolds</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R. C.</abbr> down stage.</i> I got it from the soldiers, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Giles. The poor soldiers have entrusted me⁠—</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td>Huh! They’ll be very poor soldiers if they trust you. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">General laugh.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Reynolds</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Reading from a second paper.</i> Here’s six months’ pay due Private Hiram Mott⁠—ninety-six dollars due from the state of Virginia.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Up stage <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr></i> That’s not true, sir; Virginia’s paid every cent she owes.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">James Monroe</b> is a tall man, but because of broad shoulders and stocky build looks shorter than he is. His manner is the aggressively plain-citizen type. He is dressed plainly. He lacks <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson’s</b> gracious bearing, but does not reach <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles’</b> roughness.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Reynolds</td>
						<td>Ah, it’s easy to see you come from Virginia, sir, but the poor soldiers⁠—</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td>Poor soldiers! It’s the fortune of war.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tallyrand</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">He has been settling the score with <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Melissa</b> up stage. He speaks with a slight French accent.</i> Ha! Ha! The fortune of war! You bring about the war, your soldiers fight for you and conquer your enemies and then you repudiate their claim for pay. The fortune of war! The war for them⁠—the fortune for you, eh?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Some laughter. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Reynolds</b> mixes with men at back <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr> <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Tallyrand</b> is very tall, with legs too small for his fat body. His blond hair is worn in long ringlets over his shoulders. His blue eyes, under heavy lids, have a look of scrutiny. His nose is pointed and aristocratic, but his mouth is large and coarse. His manner is watchful, but pleasant. He is dressed in the height of fashion. He wears a great hat with long curling black plume. When <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Reynolds</b> goes to the men up <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr> two of them move away and go off up <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr>; a third sits <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr> of table <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr> <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Reynolds</b> then sits on sill of centre window on <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr></i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</td>
						<td>Well, Tallyrand, I thought you had decided to return to France. Changed your mind, eh? Rather risky yet for the aristocrats to go back.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Coming down <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr> of table <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr></i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tallyrand</td>
						<td>I leave tomorrow. I am settling my score with the beautiful Melissa.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Sitting <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr> of table.</i> You’re going to take the chance, eh? Well, I hope to follow you in a very short time.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tallyrand</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Leaving <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Melissa</b>, who curtseys and goes out up <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr></i> To follow me, Senator Monroe?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</td>
						<td>As Minister to France.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tallyrand</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Back of table <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr></i> Ah, yes, how charming! President Washington has already appointed you, eh?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td>Not yet, but we shall get it all right.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tallyrand</td>
						<td>We? Oh, you also? Two ministers?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td>No, not two ministers, but it sometimes takes two men to get one job.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</b> from street up <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr>; he comes to <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">C.</abbr> looking around.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tallyrand</td>
						<td>Ah! You mean it is not so easy. You have to deal with Alexander Hamilton.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td>We’ll deal with him all right. Alexander Hamilton⁠—</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">General Philip Schuyler</b> is a large man, inclining to stoutness. He has a gouty foot and walks with a slight limp. His dress suggests the aristocrat; his manner is open and genial. He is a handsome, lovable old gentleman. He carries a handsome cane.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</td>
						<td>Shh!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</td>
						<td>Howdy, everybody!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Two or three of the men say “Howdy, General.” The <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Citizen</b> rises and bows.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tallyrand</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Goes to him effusively.</i> Ah, General Schuyler, how are you?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Turning and bowing.</i> Count Tallyrand.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Tallyrand</b> takes his two hands warmly.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tallyrand</td>
						<td>And how fares your illustrious son-in-law, Alexander Hamilton?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</td>
						<td>Why, I guess he’s all right. I’ve just come from Albany. I’ve been over to his house and find he’s not at home.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</b> moves to chair back of table <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr> and shows <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</b> papers.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tallyrand</td>
						<td>Ah, ’tis good for him to get away from his labors sometimes.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</td>
						<td>Well, it’s a queer thing for him to be away this time in the morning. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Turning again to look around to the <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr> another man rises and says: “Howdy, General.”</i> I thought he might be here⁠—</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Reynolds</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Advancing effusively, taking off his hat and snaking a low bow.</i> General Schuyler, now I’ll sell you one of these⁠—</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</b> ignores him and turns back to <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Tallyrand</b>. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Reynolds</b> goes up to behind table <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr>, laughing.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</td>
						<td>Everybody calls here.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tallyrand</td>
						<td>Yes, everybody comes to see everybody at the Exchange Coffee House. I find it amusing. It is Club, Restaurant, Merchants’ Exchange, everything.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Melissa</b> with drinks; places them on table <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr></i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</td>
						<td>Ah, we’ll alter all that in time. Count Tallyrand. We’re young, you know. Give Alexander Hamilton time to sow some seeds. We’ll have a real Merchants’ Exchange and a real live country that will be able to pay its debts. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Twinge of gout. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Melissa</b> gets chair from in front of post <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr> and brings it down <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr> of <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</b>, replacing it against table <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr>, then taking tray with other drinks across to table down <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr>, giving one to <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</b> and one to <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</b>.</i> And I hope I shall have a real foot, which I haven’t at this moment. And if you don’t mind, Melissa, my girl, I’ll just rest it in the parlor before I hobble along. Good day to you. Count Tallyrand.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Going <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr></i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tallyrand</td>
						<td>I shall call on Alexander before I leave.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</td>
						<td>He’ll be extremely glad to see you. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Twinge.</i> Confound this foot. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Goes off <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R. 2 E.</abbr></i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Reynolds</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Who has been drinking and conversing with one or two shady-looking characters, coming to him.</i> Count Tallyrand, before you return to la belle France, wouldn’t you like to buy up the whole of the French Loan? I’ll sell it to you for ten cents.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Laughter. Enter <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr> front street, <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Thomas Jefferson</b>. He is a man over six feet tall. His red hair is unpowdered. He has pointed features and a freckled face. His corduroy breeches are well-worn.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Coming down stage <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">C.</abbr></i> Good day to you, Citizens.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">First Man</b> rises and says: “Good day, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jefferson”; one or two other men say: “<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jefferson.”</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Melissa</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Coming forward with a curtsey to <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr> of <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</b>.</i> Good day to you, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jefferson.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</td>
						<td>Good day to <em>you</em>, Melissa. And how is your father today? Mending, I hope.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Melissa</td>
						<td>Yes, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</td>
						<td>No “Honor” for me; just plain Citizen, Melissa. Tell him I asked after him.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Moving toward table <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr></i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Melissa</td>
						<td>Thank you, sir. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Curtseys and is going <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr></i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Turning slightly, raising finger in protest.</i> Leave off the “Sir.”</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Melissa</td>
						<td>Yes, sir.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Laughs slightly amused.</i> A little Madeira now, Melissa. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">She goes hurriedly <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr>, and exits.</i> Citizen Monroe⁠—<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Shakes hands.</i> Good day to you, Citizen Giles. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Does not shake with <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</b>.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td>Howdy, Tom Jefferson.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Turning in front of table <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr></i> Ah, Citizen Tallyrand.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tallyrand</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Coming down <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">C.</abbr></i> <em>Count</em> Tallyrand, if you please.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</td>
						<td>In America there are no titles. Citizen Tallyrand. In this land of the free all men are equal.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td>And they say titles ain’t so very popular in France just now.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Sitting <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr> of table <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr></i> Ah, France! What a glorious change! The apostle of Liberty and Fraternity.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tallyrand</td>
						<td>Liberty! Fraternity! What do you mean by liberty, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jefferson?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Points to cap over mantel.</i> Ask your own countrymen, Citizen Tallyrand. There you behold the symbol of the liberty of your great land of France. To us in America, that crimson cap stands as a symbol of freedom⁠—a symbol⁠—</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tallyrand</td>
						<td>You call that dirty rag a symbol of Liberty? I call it a symbol of license, of lawlessness, of murder. What say you, Thomas Jefferson, to the murder of my king, Louis of France? Is that, too, a symbol of Liberty, of Fraternity?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</td>
						<td>It is the will of the people. The time is not far distant, Citizen Tallyrand, when every king in Europe will have been swept into the dust heap of history. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Approval from the crowd.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</td>
						<td>Louis the Sixteenth was an oppressor of the people.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</td>
						<td>A tyrant.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td>Yes, sir.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tallyrand</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><em>To</em> <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</b>.</i> You say that⁠—you who for five years were Minister to France and enjoyed his friendship? You, who have sat at his table?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</td>
						<td>It was necessary to use the arm of the people. Fate decreed that your newly-founded Republic should be cemented with the blood of aristocrats.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td>Down with aristocrats! Down with tyrants everywhere!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tallyrand</td>
						<td>Yes, I know your idea of liberty! Down with aristocrats! Down with everybody⁠—who is in your way!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td>I’ll tell you one thing, Citizen Tallyrand, and I’ll tell it to you <em>now</em>. There are some damned aristocrats in this country that’ll get the same treatment your king got if they don’t go careful.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tallyrand</td>
						<td>Who helped you win your freedom? The king of France.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td>Well, we ain’t goin’ t’ have any kings in this country.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tallyrand</td>
						<td>Who desires to be king?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Fiercely.</i> George Washington does.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</td>
						<td>And Alexander Hamilton wants to be Prime Minister! <em>Wants</em> to be? He is Prime Minister this very minute. Prime Minister of America. Huh!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">By this time everybody in the room is listening.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Conciliatory.</i> I assure you, Citizen Tallyrand, Citizen Giles and Citizen Monroe voice the sentiments of the great body of the American people. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Murmurs of assent from the crowd.</i> There is a growing unrest all over this land at the aristocratic tendencies of our President. There is bitter and righteous opposition to Alexander Hamilton’s efforts to centralize the government and assume the debts of the thirteen free and independent states. Such a centralization of power would inevitably lead to monarchy. I stand on the platform of the Rights of Man⁠—the rights of the individual⁠—the right of each state to its freedom. And I tell you, Citizen Tallyrand, the gravest danger that threatens America today rests in the persons of those men who are striving to centralize the power of the United States; striving to establish a military dictatorship.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Approval from crowd at table <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr> One man strikes the table to emphasize his agreement.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</td>
						<td>A condition that will involve us in European quarrels in which it should be our policy to take no part.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tallyrand</td>
						<td>How can you keep out of European quarrels when your interests are bound up with those of Europe?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</td>
						<td>Our riches and resources can bid defiance to any power on earth. It is only when our rights are invaded that we should make preparation for our defense.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tallyrand</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">With a shrug.</i> Yes, and then it will be perhaps too late.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</td>
						<td>Citizen Tallyrand, I look for the day when during the rage of eternal wars in Europe, the lion and the lamb within our regions shall lie down together in peace.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tallyrand</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Down beside <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</b>.</i> Yes, they would lie down together⁠—until the lion feel hungry, then he would get up and eat the lamb.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Laughter from crowd.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</td>
						<td>Against this tendency toward centralization, we who love the freedom of our own state will fight to the death.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tallyrand</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Moving to <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">C.</abbr></i> Yes, thirteen jealous states all working against each other. How are you going to pay your debts without a central government? You have no credit abroad. Your paper is not worth five cents on the dollar. Why don’t you pay the men who furnished you supplies for your war? Why don’t you pay the soldiers who gained you that liberty that you love so dearly?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td>Damn the soldiers. This country’s goin’ to put a stop to Washington’s coddling of the army.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tallyrand</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Advancing a little to <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</b>.</i> It was the soldiers who won you your precious freedom.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</td>
						<td>Well, Virginia’s paid her soldiers.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tallyrand</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Coming down on <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe’s</b> level.</i> Has South Carolina? Has Rhode Island?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</td>
						<td>That’s no affair of Virginia.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td>No, sir.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tallyrand</td>
						<td>Why not? Did not the soldiers of Rhode Island help Virginia to her liberty? Each one fought for the common good. Each one should be paid.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</td>
						<td>By that, Citizen Tallyrand, I understand you to mean that the government should assume the war debts of all the states.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tallyrand</td>
						<td>Those debts were the price of your liberty. If you have a government, it should pay the country’s debts.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</td>
						<td>Citizen Tallyrand, you are simply speaking from Alexander Hamilton’s platform. You are an aristocrat.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Some of the crowd agree with this.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</td>
						<td>So’s Hamilton.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Tallyrand</b> shrugs his shoulders and moves to <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R. C.</abbr></i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</td>
						<td>As such you cannot possibly understand the love of liberty that burns in the heart of every loyal American. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Rising and coming to <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Tallyrand</b>.</i> This attempt by Alexander Hamilton to compel the central government to assume the debts of the thirteen states is merely a trick, a maneuver, to give greater power to that central body and to ruthlessly crush the freedom of the states. We, as Virginians, love Virginia. Her freedom⁠—We will fight for her freedom⁠—</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Moves back to his chair.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tallyrand</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Coming toward him.</i> <i xml:lang="fr">Mon Dieu!</i> Fight! Where were you when Alexander Hamilton stormed the redoubts at Yorktown?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</td>
						<td>As you know, Citizen Tallyrand, I am not a soldier. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Sits.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Winking at <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</b>.</i> Jefferson has never been a fighter, you know, Citizen Tallyrand.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tallyrand</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">C.</abbr></i> Citizen! Citizen! Citizen! You prate and boast about the rights of man, and sneer at Alexander Hamilton as an aristocrat. Have any of you worked for the Rights of Man as he has? When it was an affair of fighting for your liberty, he fought. At the age of nineteen⁠—twenty years, he had risen to be Colonel and was leading the victorious charge at Yorktown. At the hour when your liberty was assured he lay down his arms and commenced to make a nation of you. I tell you I have known all the great men of my time⁠—Pitt, Fox, Washington⁠—and of them all it is my boast that know Alexander Hamilton. Adieu!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">He sweeps out, <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L. U. E.</abbr> to the street. During the following dialogue there is general movement and talking amongst the crowd; some laugh tolerantly, others shake their heads in doubt. The <b epub:type="z3998:persona">First Man</b> rises and bowing to the man he has been talking to, crosses to the man at the fireplace who is reading the paper, has a few words with him and then exits up <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr> The man he has been speaking to, down <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr>, rises and is joined by the man who has been sitting on the other side of the table, <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr>; they take arms and stroll out up <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr>, chatting as they go. One of the Quakers goes into the street <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr> and the other comes to <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">C.</abbr> and watches the men who are playing chess; he afterwards sits in the upper corner of settle <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr> of fireplace. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Reynolds</b> strolls up and takes down a pipe from mantel. He chats a moment with a soldier who is sitting <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr> of table <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr> The man who was reading the paper goes off <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr>, leaving the paper on settle.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td>Why, the crazy⁠—</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</td>
						<td>Hush! He’s right, friend, he’s right. Hamilton is a great man, but his energies are misdirected.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Rises and moves to <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">C.</abbr></i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td>Great man! Why, he ain’t got half the following you have!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</td>
						<td>That infernal French aristocrat has put the whole thing in a nutshell. Hamilton and Washington are working against the interests of the individual. They’re working against us.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">During this <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Melissa</b> enters from <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr> with a glass of Madeira, puts it on table <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr> and then crossing over to post <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R. C.</abbr> she hangs a card on it. It is a notice of a ship’s sailing. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Reynolds</b> has some business of flirting with her. He slips his arm through hers⁠—she resents and exits <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L. 2 E.</abbr> <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Reynolds</b> goes off up <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr></i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</td>
						<td>Come, come, we mustn’t say that.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</td>
						<td>Well, it’s true!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</td>
						<td>That may be, but⁠—</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td>Well, what you goin’ t’ do about it!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">To <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Melissa</b>.</i> Ah, thank you, my dear. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">He and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</b> drink. As they drink <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Reynolds</b> flirts with <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Melissa</b>; see above.</i> Citizen Monroe, I came in the hope of finding you here this morning because I have decided that it is necessary that you and I should make a friendly call upon Alexander Hamilton.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">During dialogue the two men who have been playing chess rise and consult the card <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Melissa</b> has hung up. One of them makes some notes; they exchange a few words, bow to each other and go off <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr> and <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr> The <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Quaker</b> remains on settle <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr> of fireplace reading from a small book.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</td>
						<td>A friendly call!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</td>
						<td>To conciliate him.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</td>
						<td>With what object?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</td>
						<td>We need his cooperation. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Sits again.</i> The decision of the location of the Capital of the United States is now a matter of urgent necessity. It is vitally necessary that we should secure the Capital for the South, where our influence is paramount.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</td>
						<td>Don’t see any need to worry about that. The North hasn’t got any chance anyway. Why, Washington’s a Virginian⁠—if he is under Alexander Hamilton’s thumb.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Rising.</i> George Washington ain’t got a damned bit of loyalty in him!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</td>
						<td>Come, come! I cannot discuss this matter with you, Citizen Giles, unless you refrain from invective.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td>Well⁠—he’s a Virginian, and yet he is just as interested in New York and Massachusetts as he is in Virginia. It makes me sick.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">A soldier who has been sitting <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr> of table <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr> rises and goes off up <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr> smiling.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</td>
						<td>The Capital of the United States doesn’t go to the North as long as James Monroe has a fight in him.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</td>
						<td>Let us consider our own position. Hamilton is straining every nerve to pass through Congress his Bill for the Government Assumption of States’ Debts.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Reynolds</b> appears at door up <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr> smoking a pipe. He leans against door a minute, then comes to post <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R. C.</abbr> and pretends to be reading the card while he listens.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td>It’s an outrage. Let every state pay its own debts.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</td>
						<td>Well, we’re blocking that bill, and will continue to block it to the last ditch.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</b> sits back of table <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr></i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</td>
						<td>Without our cooperation⁠—which we cannot possibly extend⁠—his bill cannot go through.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</td>
						<td>Then what’s the use of us going to ask favors of him when he knows perfectly well that we are the most active opponents of his bill?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td>I say, fight him.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</td>
						<td>I believe you’re right, Giles, fight him!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Coming toward table <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr></i> Come, come, Monroe, more flies may be caught with a dish of molasses than with a sea of vinegar. You know you’ve set your heart on being appointed Minister to France.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</td>
						<td>I have.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</td>
						<td>Hamilton’s word will go a long way with Washington. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Reynolds</b> turns his head slightly toward them, then picking up paper sits on seat <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr> of fireplace and reads, removing his hat, which he places beside him.</i> Come, we’ll make a friendly call.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td>Hamilton will fight tooth and nail to have the Capital in New York.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</td>
						<td>That may be. Hamilton is a New Yorker.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Sneers.</i> Is he? He comes from God knows where.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</td>
						<td>Sh⁠—sh!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td>A bastard, born in the⁠—</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</b> and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</b> protest; <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</b> rises.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</td>
						<td>We don’t need to discuss his arrival into the world, Giles. I am far more interested in his removal.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Reynolds</b> turns chair in front of him and puts his feet on it.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Moving to <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">C.</abbr></i> We must be prepared for his opposition to the South⁠—</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</td>
						<td>It will be a lasting disgrace to this country if the Capital is not in Virginia.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</td>
						<td>Too remote, Monroe. You see we’ve no post-roads. Inaccessible from New England.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td>Damn it! Ain’t you workin’ for Virginia?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</td>
						<td>I’m afraid we cannot hope for Virginia. I believe, though, if we go carefully, there is a chance of getting it for the South.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</td>
						<td>Where?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</td>
						<td>On the Potomac.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td>Well, that’s a damned sight better’n New York.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Coming back to table.</i> Come, we will call on Hamilton this evening⁠—a friendly call⁠—after supper, perhaps. But remember we must steer clear of any mention of his Bill for the Government Assumption of States’ Debts.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</td>
						<td>It doesn’t suit me to go begging to Hamilton.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td>He’s got the President wound round his little finger.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</td>
						<td>And the people trust him.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td>Shake the people’s faith in him, that’s the thing.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Reynolds</b> lowers his paper a moment.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</td>
						<td>He’s honest, Giles. We’ve tested his honesty.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</td>
						<td>Yes, the Anti-Federalists have attacked his honesty as Secretary of the Treasury from every possible angle, and he’s always beaten us.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td>We ain’t used up our whole bag o’ tricks yet, not by a damned sight.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">With a slight look of disapproval at <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</b>.</i> Then, Citizen Monroe, we will meet here this evening at nine. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</b> rises.</i> We will make a late call on Hamilton, as I wish our visit to be regarded scarcely as one relating to business.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">He goes up to street door <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr></i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Scratching chin.</i> If we could only make the people believe that Hamilton, the Secretary of the Treasury, ain’t playin’ fair with the gate-money⁠—why, we’d have the hull country in our pockets.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Reynolds</b> can be observed listening. Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</b> from parlor <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L. 2 E.</abbr>, followed by <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Melissa</b>. At sound of <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler’s</b> voice, <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</b> rises and crossing to table <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr> puts his foot up on a chair and thinks.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</td>
						<td>I think I’ll be hobbling off, Melissa. My regards to your father.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Melissa</b> crosses <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</b> to chessboard at fireplace.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</td>
						<td>Good day to you. Citizen Schuyler.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Returning from street door.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">At post <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr> of fireplace.</i> Howdy do, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jefferson. Howdy do, Senator Monroe.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</td>
						<td>And how’s the gout?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</td>
						<td>Well, it’s⁠—<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Gets a twinge.</i> Oh⁠—I can’t tell you in the presence of this young lady.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Melissa</b>, taking pipes off chess-table, moves over to table <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr>, picks up some jugs and exits up <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr></i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Coming up <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr></i> We were just talking about your son-in-law, Alexander Hamilton.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">With a grunt.</i> Ah! That doesn’t surprise me.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</td>
						<td><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Hamilton is not back from England yet?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</td>
						<td>No, Betsy’s not back yet.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</td>
						<td>I understand she went over to see your other daughter who was sick. I trust she is better.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</td>
						<td>Yes, she’s all right now, thank God!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</td>
						<td><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jefferson and I propose to drop in and see Alexander Hamilton tonight.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</td>
						<td>I hope that he is well.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</td>
						<td>Yes, he’s as well as you fellows will let him be.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">A step toward him angrily.</i> What do you mean by that, General Schuyler?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Responding with anger.</i> You know what I mean. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</b> goes up to street door <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr></i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Between them and laughing.</i> Come, come, do not let us quarrel. We’re coming in to have a little chat with Citizen Hamilton concerning the location of the Capital. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</b> looks interested.</i> Citizen Schuyler, I bid you good day, sir. Good day to you, Citizen Giles.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</td>
						<td>Good day.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td>Good day. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</b> and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</b> to <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr> through street door.</i> Give my love to Alexander.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Grins.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Looks after <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</b> and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</b> and then at <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles.</b></i> You’re cooking something for him between you, and you’re the chief stoker.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td>I’m a fighter, if that’s what you mean.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</td>
						<td>Yes, you’re a fighter, but a damned poor sportsman. When your party wants to circulate any damnable insinuations about Alexander Hamilton, they go to Giles of Virginia and he does the dirty work. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</b> turns.</i> Because you and your gang know that Alexander has the confidence of the people and that he means to make the government assume the states’ debts, you are forever trying to trip him up⁠—shouting corruption in the Treasury, dishonesty in the Treasury, and God knows what. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Moving toward <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr> and turning again.</i> I don’t say who’s the author of the accusations. I don’t say it’s Tom Jefferson or Senator Monroe, but I know where to put my hand on the man who does the dirty work. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</b> crosses angrily toward him.</i> Yes, you’re a fighter, but you know only one knockout blow, and that’s the one below the belt. You needn’t glare at me. I wouldn’t soil my hands with you, but this is one of the times when I wish I had gout anywhere but in my foot.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</b> <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr> to street. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</b> thinks hard and looks ugly, then laughs and comes down to <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr> of table <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr> and drinks.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Reynolds</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Who has been listening and enjoying the row, says meditatively.</i> Shake the people’s faith in him.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Curtain warning.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Turning to him.</i> What d’you say?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Reynolds</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Smiling.</i> Shake the people’s faith in him.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td>You’ve been listening, eh?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Reynolds</td>
						<td>Well, that’s the only way I get a living, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Giles⁠—keeping my ears open.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Picking up his hat from beside him.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td>Well, keep your mouth shut.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Sits <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr> of table <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr> and chews a toothpick.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Reynolds</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Rising and coming to <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">C.</abbr> slowly, laughing.</i> Pretty hard job to shake the people’s faith in Alexander Hamilton, ain’t it?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td>Mind your own damn business.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Reynolds</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Laughs and crosses to chair back of table <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr>; puts his hat down on table.</i> You’ve tried to prove him incompetent; you’ve tried to prove him dishonest; but there’s one thing you haven’t tried, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Giles.<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Back of table.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Turning away from him.</i> Go to the devil.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Reynolds</td>
						<td>And it’s strange you haven’t thought of it. How about a woman?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</b> is silent a moment. Rolls toothpick around in his mouth, spits it out, replaces it with another, and then looks at <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Reynolds</b>.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td>You’re a little gentleman, ain’t yer, Reynolds?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Reynolds</td>
						<td>Women are the deuce for tangling up a man’s finances.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td>You know all about it, don’t you?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Reynolds</td>
						<td>Yes, I know a good deal about women. I’m married, you know.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td>Yes, I know.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Reynolds</td>
						<td>I know a good deal about men, too. Now <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Hamilton is away, been away a long time in England. Now, what do you say⁠—</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Turning away.</i> I don’t want any advice from you. Besides, as you know so much, you know that Hamilton hardly ever leaves his house.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Reynolds</td>
						<td>Makes it all the easier. Send the woman to the house.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Looking in front of him.</i> What the devil do you mean?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Reynolds</td>
						<td>It’s a matter of choosing the right woman and the right moment. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Puts down pipe and leans forward.</i> You’ve seen <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Reynolds, haven’t you?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td>Your wife?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Reynolds</td>
						<td>Yes.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Turning squarely toward him.</i> God, you’re a bad ’un, ain’t you?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Reynolds</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Leaning back and smiling.</i> I’m what may be called a soldier of fortune, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Giles.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td>You come in on the blackmailing end of the game, eh? You’d do any damned thing for a ten dollar piece, wouldn’t you?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Reynolds</td>
						<td>Yes, I’m afraid my price is a little lower than yours, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Giles. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Leans forward again.</i> You might see <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Reynolds. She’s a nice little thing. I’m very fond of her, but she’s too good for me.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Looking in front of him again.</i> Oh!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Reynolds</td>
						<td>Yes, it’s the clothes, you know, that cause the trouble. She must have pretty clothes. She’s young, you see. She⁠—<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Noticing that <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</b> is interested he takes a pen and writes on a slip of paper, rises and puts the paper on <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles’</b> knee.</i> That’s our address, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Giles.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Reynolds</b>, picking up his hat, moves toward door <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L. 2 E.</abbr></i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td>She be at home now? <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Looking at paper.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Reynolds</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Smiling and coming back a step.</i> Yes, I think so. You’ve seen her with me, haven’t you?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td>Yes.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Reynolds</td>
						<td>She’s a pretty little thing, ain’t she? <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</b> looks at him sideways.</i> She’s a clever little thing, too. Well, good day, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Giles.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<p>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Reynolds</b> <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L. 2 E.</abbr> <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</b> remains looking at the paper, apparently thinking it over. He reaches for his hat, which is on the table beside him; rises with sudden determination; puts his hat on, looks again at the paper, then with his mind made up he exits quickly through the street door up <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr></i>
							</p>
							<p>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">
									<b>Curtain</b>
								</i>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
				</tbody>
			</table>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
