<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>III</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction z3998:drama">
		<section id="act-3" epub:type="chapter z3998:scene">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Act</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</span>
			</h2>
			<p>Scene.—Same as in Act II. In October of the same year. There are flowers about, accentuating the feeling that the woman of the house has come back. The furniture is all placed as at the rise of the second act. On the mantelpiece up stage end is a small vase of autumn flowers. On small table above fireplace large bowl of autumn flowers. On bookcase center at back a vase of goldenrod, on bookcase left, a small vase with yellow flowers and on <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton's</b> table a glass bowl of violets. Washington's chair is placed a little further to left. The chair against wall below door left is removed and placed at left of <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton's</b> table. The small chair back of sofa is placed under small table at window on right. A chair similar to the other chairs in the room is placed back of sofa. There are fresh lace curtains at windows.</p>
			<table>
				<tbody>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<p>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</b> is discovered on steps at center window, hanging last pair of curtains, assisted by <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Zekiel</b>, who stands left of steps. She is in the highest of spirits and laughs at <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Zekiel's</b> fears for her safety.</i>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Laughing.</i> Now, Zekiel, catch these curtains when I drop them.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Zekiel</td>
						<td>I certainly do wish you'd let me come up them steps 'stead ob you, Mis' Betsy.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td>Why, you dear old darky, you stay where you're safe.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Zekiel</td>
						<td>Yo've come all cross de ocean an' yo' still alive. Don' want nothin' to happen to yo' no sooner'n yo' get on tere firm. When yo' come home las' night, I cut'ny was glad to see yo'—an' Mis' Angelica, too—and Mars' Ham'ton has been jimipin' about lak a schoolboy evah since.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td>Now—catch! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Drops curtain.</i> And remember, Zekiel, when you get married and have a house of your own——</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Zekiel</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Yapping.</i> Me git married! Ha, ha! Yo' sure is amusin'. Guess if I evah get mar'd, I won't have nothin' ob ma own. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Laughs.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td>Remember if you have lace curtains . . . you have <em>clean</em> ones.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica Church</b> in street clothes, door up <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr>, apparently coming from the street.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</td>
						<td>Why, Betsy Hamilton! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Closing door and to <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">C.</abbr></i> I called to see if you were up! I see you are!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Up on the ladder.</i> Angelica Church, the next time you have scarlet fever, I hope you'll have it in your own country and not drag me over to England to nurse you. The state of this house is beyond belief. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Mounting another step.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</td>
						<td>Betsy, if you're going to mount any higher, you'd better let <em>me</em> come and hold those steps.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Goes to steps <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr> of them.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td>Now, Zekiel, take those curtains and give them to Mary for the wash.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Zekiel</td>
						<td>I will do that. Mis' Betsy. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Moving to door <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr></i> I cut'ny do hope Mars' Ham'ton don' come in an' fine yo' riskin' yo' life yo' fust day home.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Zekiel</b>, <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr></i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</td>
						<td>How you can do it, I don't know. I've felt the motion of the boat all night. I wouldn't do that if you paid me.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td>If I could afford to pay you, Angelica, I'd employ somebody who knew how.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</b> shakes steps in retaliation. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</b> screams.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Coming down <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">C.</abbr> a little.</i> Where's Amiable?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td>Angelica, I don't think it's fair that you should have a pet name for my husband.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</td>
						<td>Well, I've always called him Amiable because it fits him so much better than Alexander. Where is he?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td>I sent him to walk three times around the Common, while I took down those curtains.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</td>
						<td>He's a darling. I wonder you can bear to let him out of your sight.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Sitting on top step.</i> I can't, dear, I can't. Oh, I'm so glad to be home! But when I came in here this morning I couldn't see anything but those dirty lace curtains, so I had to send him out.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Laughing.</i> And then, it'll be nice to see him come in again, won't it? <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Sitting on end of sofa.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td>How do you think he looks?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</td>
						<td>Hale and hearty.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td>Do you? I thought he was looking quite thin and pale.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</td>
						<td>Oh, because you've been away, of course. Well, I'm very sorry, but I think he looks fat and well.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td>I ought not to have left him.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</td>
						<td>You're terribly in love, aren't you?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Coming up to ladder.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td>I am, Angelica, and I can't get over it. You know Alexander is the most wonderful man in the world.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Back to <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">C.</abbr></i> Is he? What about my husband?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td>Oh, well, John Church is a dear old thing, but you couldn't possibly be <em>terribly</em> in love with him, could you? Besides he's an Englishman.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</td>
						<td>What do you mean, Betsy Hamilton? I <em>am</em> terribly in love with him.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td>I know you are, dear, but you couldn't possibly love John as I love Alexander.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</td>
						<td>And why not?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td>Well, he's a dear, but he has no brains—now has he?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</td>
						<td>He has very good brains for an Englishman. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Moves in front of sofa, removing shawl.</i> Besides he's easier to manage that way.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Drops shawl on head of sofa.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td>He's very nice and he's very rich, but he isn't Alexander.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</td>
						<td>Well, as I prefer having a husband to myself, it's just as well he isn't. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">They both laugh. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</b> sits end of sofa. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</b> resumes her work.</i> Betsy, it's sheer nonsense, your going on doing all the work in this house as you do.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td>I like it.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</td>
						<td>You don't like it, and you know it. A daughter of General Schuyler doing this kind of work—it isn't right.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td>Well, you know Alexander's salary, don't you? Three thousand dollars a year.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</td>
						<td>Why don't you let father make you a decent allowance?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td>Alexander would rather die than take a penny from any one.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</td>
						<td>Then why don't you make him give up working for his old country and let him work for himself and for you? <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Rising and crossing to back of table <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr></i> Father says he could make twenty thousand dollars a year easily as a lawyer in private practice.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Dusting panes of glass.</i> The life of this Republic is dearer to him than anything else in the world.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</td>
						<td>Oh! Dearer than his wife and family, I suppose?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Picking up paper.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td>There's no question of that. I know his ambitions and I'm proud to be helping—if it's only in this way.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Throwing down paper disgustedly.</i> Three thousand dollars a year! How do they expect him to provide for you? The government ought to be ashamed of itself. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Shakes steps.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Balancing herself on the top step.</i> If you get so excited at the bottom of these steps, I shan't need anybody to provide for me.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</b>, <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr> door, hat and cane; he carries a rose.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Slamming door behind him.</i> Betsy Schuyler! Come down at once. What on earth are you doing up there?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Beaming at him.</i> I wanted to get a good view of you as you came in, dear.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Putting stick against wall <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr> of bookcase at <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">C.</abbr> back.</i> Come down, madam, immediately, or I'll come up and fetch you. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Putting hat on bookcase.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Extending both arms invitingly.</i> I dare you to kiss me. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">He dashes for the steps.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Intercepting him at <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr> of ladder.</i> Now, if there's any kissing to be done, you start at the bottom of the ladder. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">She kisses him.</i> I've left my husband in England, and I'm starving to death. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Kisses him again.</i> Good-morning, Amiable.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">He kisses her.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td>I'm coming down.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Descends hurriedly. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</b>, laughing, moves to <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr></i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>I hadn't the heart to refuse her, Betsy. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Embraces <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</b> fondly.</i> I've been starved so long myself.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">He kisses <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</b> and then gives her a rose he has brought with him. They come down stage together, he being on her <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr> <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</b> also comes down on <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy's</b> <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr> <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Zekiel</b> enters <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr>; removes ladder on to balcony and exits on balcony toward <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr></i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</td>
						<td>Well, my duties as overseer being finished, I suppose I ought to go, but as I only got a glimpse of you last night, Amiable, I'm going to stay and share you with Betsy for the next five minutes.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td>Shall we let her?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>Yes, yes. Let's be kind to her.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Sits sofa; <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</b> sits on his <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr></i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</td>
						<td>Well, the vanity of these men! Now, tell me all you've been doing since Betsy went away.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Sitting on sofa, <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr> of <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</b>.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td>You've only got five minutes, you know.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</td>
						<td>I'll stay ten.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td>Even then I am afraid he will have to leave some things out.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</td>
						<td>Ah! Those are the things I should like to hear. Well, what have you been doing?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">His arm around <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</b>.</i> Well, now I'll tell you—but pay great attention—these are state secrets. Part of my time has been spent in trying to save this country from rack and ruin.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</td>
						<td>What's rack?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td>Order, Mrs. Church.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</td>
						<td>I know what ruin is. It's the salary your country pays you for saving it.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>Order in court!!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</td>
						<td>If you're the Judge, you've no right to be embracing that lady. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</b> is nestling during this.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>I'm not the Judge. I'm only the supporting Counsel. But <em>most</em> of my time——</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</td>
						<td>Ah!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Removing his arm and turning to <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</b>.</i> <em>Most</em> of my time has been spent in trying to find the things that Betsy put away before she <em>went</em> away.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Turning him toward her.</i> Why, Alexander, I put everything in its proper place!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>That's what caused all the trouble. That's why I could never find anything, till I had looked everywhere else.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</td>
						<td>Now, if that isn't just like John Church! Husbands are all alike.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Looking at <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</b>, then turning to <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</b>.</i> You've seen her husband, Betsy?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td>Yes, dear.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>Has she any right to make that statement?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td>No, dear.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>Am I like her husband?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td>No, dear!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Assuming horror at the thought; <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</b> rises.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>Then the court discharges her with a caution. We will proceed with the next case.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Folds <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</b> in his arms and kisses her.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</td>
						<td>For which, I presume, no witnesses will be called. Well, I'll go back to my father.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Crossing and taking her shawl.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td>Oh, don't go, Angelica.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Turning <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">C.</abbr></i> Well, I won't, because my father's coming here to fetch me. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Moves to door <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr></i> But I'll go into the kitchen and talk to Mary and Zekiel. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</b> makes movement; rises.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</td>
						<td>No, don't leave the bench, Judge. I can open the door of my cell. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr>, laughing.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>Betsy!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Kisses her fondly, then sits, placing his arm around her.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Fondly.</i> You're a real lover, aren't you, dear?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>They've been long months without you. It seemed as though you were never coming back.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td>It was dreadful of me to stay away so long. But you know I couldn't help it.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>You must never, never go away again.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td>I never will, dearest. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">She kisses him.</i> But now that I am back, I'm going to be a dreadfully expensive wife. I'm going to take away all your savings. There are no end of things wanted for the house—and of course I haven't got a rag to my back. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Laughs.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Laughing uneasily.</i> Well, Betsy, we'll pay a visit to the rag shop first, and the house can wait.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Knock ready.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td>No, no, we'll do the house first—and I'll wait. But you must have untold wealth hidden away. Why, there's two quarters' salary since I've been gone—and no wife to spend it for you.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Distressed.</i> Betsy, I've had some unexpected expenses recently—but <em>next</em> quarter——</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td>Why, it's all right, dear. Everything can wait. Only I didn't know. I thought you'd been at home, busy, and hadn't much opportunity of spending.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>I've had some expensive presents to make—diplomatic presents, you know.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">With a little laugh.</i> Oh, bribes.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Glancing at her quickly.</i> I'm afraid it almost amounts to that.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td>That doesn't sound like you, Alexander. I can't bear to think—— <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Knock heard. They rise.</i> Now, here's somebody coming to take you away from me, I suppose.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Embracing and kissing her.</i> This is your day, Betsy, and wild horses shall not drag me from you.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Off stage.</i> Wait a moment, Judge. I'll see if he's at home. Mr. Hamilton at home, Uncle?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Zekiel</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Off.</i> Walk right in, sah.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Zekiel</b> opens room door and admits <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</b> and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Chief Justice Hay</b>. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</b> to <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">C.</abbr>, <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</b> <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr> <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Jay</b> follows <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</b>; the street door is also open. Before <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Jay</b> enters, <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</b> hurriedly removes her apron and throws it to <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</b> who throws it to <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Zekiel</b> when <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Jay</b> has passed down. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Zekiel</b> exits <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr>, closing room door, also street door.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Coming to <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">C.</abbr> behind <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</b>.</i> Here's Chief Justice Jay, Alexander. I met him on the door-step.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Up stage <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">C.</abbr>, curtseying.</i> How do you do, Judge Jay?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jay</td>
						<td>Mrs. Hamilton <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">bowing near door up <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr> and coming down</i>, I'm delighted to welcome you back.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Kisses her hand.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">To <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</b>.</i> Good-morning, my dear.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td>Good-morning, father.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Kisses him; they come down, <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</b> on his <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr></i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Giving his hand.</i> Judge Jay, it is good of you to honor us with a visit. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Jay</b> comes to <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</b>.</i> You've been away.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jay</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Down <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr> in front of sofa.</i> Yes, for a month. On my return I went first to General Washington, whom I now find installed in Colonel Frank's house at Germantown.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>Yes, the place was available as temporary executive quarters.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jay</td>
						<td>I then came to pay my respects to Mrs. Hamilton and to congratulate you on your having converted Jefferson and Monroe to the support of your Bill.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Shaking <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton's</b> hand.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>That is gradually filtering through to the other states, eh?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</td>
						<td>Alexander's a wonder!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Extends hand. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</b> crosses to <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">C.</abbr> and takes it.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>You know, Jefferson and Monroe have withheld the news of their capitulation as long as possible. They're desperately afraid of what their followers will say.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jay</td>
						<td>It's amazing. I didn't believe that Jefferson would yield one inch.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</td>
						<td>After all his yelling and shouting about the Rights of Man! Alexander's a wonder!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Taking out his snuff-box and taking a pinch.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jay</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Laughing.</i> What excuse will he make to his constituents?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">C.</abbr> <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</b> on his <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr>, <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Jay</b> on his <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr>, <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</b> on his <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr></i> He'll just take his pen in his hand and write a cantata and his constituents will lift up their voices and sing. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">All laugh.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</td>
						<td>Sing what?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Handing <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</b> snuff-box, who does not take any but holds the open box for <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Jay</b> who takes a pinch.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>Jefferson's praises, of course.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td>How did you do it?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</td>
						<td>Bribery. Bribery and corruption!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td>You didn't give Mr. Jefferson your two quarters' salary?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>No, my dear. I gave him the Capital of the United States.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Handing snuff-box back to <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</b>.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td>But there isn't one!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>That's what made it so easy.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Laughter; goes up <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">C.</abbr></i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</td>
						<td>Ah, if it could only have been in Albany!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jay</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">With a touch of indignation.</i> Albany? Why put the Capital at the other end of the river? It should be in New York.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Coming down between them, laughing.</i> Let us resign it to Jefferson—on the Potomac. It's a long way from civilization, and the river will carry off the refuse of debate. The representative of the separate states can pour their slander and vituperation into the Potomac—until they damn it, while the Hudson will remain unrestrained to carry on the business of the country.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">They all laugh. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</b> goes back of table <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr>, <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</b> toward sofa and sits on <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr> end of it.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Curtseying to <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Jay</b>.</i> Good-morning, Your Honor. I must tell you that my husband has promised this day to me.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>Are you on business, Judge Jay?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jay</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Down <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr></i> I think I shall not detain you long.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>Then, my dear—— <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Coming to her by <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr> of table.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Smiling.</i> You said wild horses should not drag you from me.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>I think the Judge hardly comes under that class; you see he is controlled by the harness of the state.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jay</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Laughing and to <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">C.</abbr></i> Which makes him a very tame horse indeed.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td>In ten minutes, then, I shall take the reins and drive you away.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exits <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr>, brightly. He follows her to door.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jay</td>
						<td>You must be proud of your daughters, General Schuyler.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</td>
						<td>Proud? Why, since they've been back my bosom has so swelled with pride that my foot has sunk into insignificance.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Taking chair from <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr> of table and placing it <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L. C.</abbr> in front of table.</i> Will you sit down, Judge? <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Indicates chair <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr> of table.</i> There was something you wished to say to me?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jay</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Coming to chair <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr> of table.</i> Yes—er—yes. Ahem! What a very pleasant room you have here.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Tentatively.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>I'm beginning to doubt it, Judge Jay.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jay</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Surprised.</i> To doubt it? Why?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Sits <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr> of table.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>That is precisely the remark Mr. Jefferson made when he had something unpleasant to say to me.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Sits <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L. C.</abbr> in front of table, but facing somewhat toward <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Jay</b>.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jay</td>
						<td>You are right. I have something that it is not easy to say to you.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</td>
						<td>Do you wish me to go, Judge?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jay</td>
						<td>No, General, I very much desire that you should stay. Mr. Hamilton, it is sometimes difficult to determine how far a public man realizes the extent of his influence on the character of others. You are a modest man, but I think you must know that the eyes of the nation are turned toward you as an honorable man who is to steer this country clear of grave dangers.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>I am, at any rate, conscious of great responsibilities.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jay</td>
						<td>That is so—great and grave responsibilities. No one but yourself can persuade the government to assume the debts of the states.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>The value of the cooperation of Jefferson and Monroe on that issue cannot be overrated.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jay</td>
						<td>Yes. The Anti-Federalists are with you on that issue as long as they have to be, but it is my belief that they are looking for a loophole, a way out.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>What makes you believe that?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jay</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Pause. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</b> waits.</i> I will be frank with you. I have been several times annoyed by the receipt of anonymous letters threatening exposure of some scandal connected with the Secretary of the Treasury. I wished you to remain, General Schuyler, because I want it understood that my confidence in Colonel Hamilton is unbounded. I have traced these letters to a man named Reynolds.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>Oh, yes.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jay</td>
						<td>You know him?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>Yes.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jay</td>
						<td>He was recently arrested for perjury in connection with a state case. Do you know anything of the case?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>No, but the prosecution was made through the Treasury Department, and he wrote to me, begging me to use my influence to obtain his release.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jay</td>
						<td>And you refused.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>Yes, I refused.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jay</td>
						<td>Had he any reason to believe that you would help him?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>Yes, good reason.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jay</td>
						<td>Why did you refuse?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>Because I have never used my public office for my private ends.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jay</td>
						<td>By that I understand that the man has some claim upon you.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>Yes.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jay</td>
						<td>It has come to my knowledge that since his arrest certain papers or letters have fallen into the hands of Senator Monroe, and that some information has been passed on to the unscrupulous Giles of Virginia. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Zekiel</b> up <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr></i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Zekiel</td>
						<td>Sentah Monroe an' Mr. Giles to see yo', sah.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Jay</b> and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</b> look toward each other.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Rising.</i> It looks as if your information were correct, Judge Jay.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jay</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Rising.</i> I'll take my leave.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>Excuse me. I ask you both to remain. Show them in, Zekiel.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Zekiel</b>. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</b> places chair back <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr> of table.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jay</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Meeting him in front of table and taking his hand.</i> Understand, Hamilton, my confidence in your integrity is unshakable.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Zekiel</b>. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Jay</b> to <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr></i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Zekiel</td>
						<td>Sentah Monroe and Mr. Giles.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</b> and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</b> up <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr></i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Down <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">C.</abbr> and bowing.</i> Gentlemen, you honor me. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Zekiel</b> door up <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr></i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Coming down.</i> I'm sorry if I interrupt you, Mr. Hamilton, but my errand is important.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</b> meets them <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">C.</abbr></i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">On <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe's</b> <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr></i> How do, Hamilton?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</b> shows annoyance at <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles'</b> loud manner.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>Mr. Giles. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Bows.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</td>
						<td>Citizen Jay.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jay</td>
						<td>Senator Monroe. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">They bow.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td>How do, Judge? <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Jay</b> doesn't bow to <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</b>.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>Judge Jay called—— Won't you sit down, Mr. Monroe? <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</b> sits <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr> of table. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</b> remains standing.</i> Judge Jay called to express his pleasure at your cooperation in connection with the States' Debts. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Jay</b> sits <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr> of table.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</td>
						<td>Yes, I trust we shall have no reason to alter our decision on that point.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Standing back of table.</i> I, too, trust that you will not find it expedient to break your word.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td>It's not a matter of breaking words; it's a matter of public opinion.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>Oh, I was not referring to you, Mr. Giles. Everybody knows that you would never be guilty of a breach of faith.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td>Ugh! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Moves across <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr> in front of sofa.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>Unless it were made absolutely worth your while.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Turning.</i> That remark is uncalled for, sir!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>True. Tell me, Mr. Giles, what <em>have</em> you called for?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</td>
						<td>We have called, Citizen Hamilton, on business of a private character.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>Do you wish us to be alone?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</td>
						<td>I think you would prefer it.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Zekiel</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enters up <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr>, announcing.</i> Mr. Thomas Jefferson!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</b> to <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">C.</abbr> <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</b> and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Jay</b> rise.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Greets him <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">C.</abbr></i> Mr. Jefferson!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</td>
						<td>You will excuse me, Citizen Hamilton, but I received a note from Citizen Monroe asking me to meet him here at this hour. I trust I do not intrude.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</td>
						<td>I told Mr. Jefferson that the business was urgent.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</td>
						<td>Otherwise, I assure you, I should not have taken this liberty.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">To <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</b>.</i> Does your business relate to my public office as Secretary of the Treasury?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td>It does.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>Then I am gratified that you are here, Mr. Jefferson, and I shall ask you, gentlemen, to allow Chief Justice Jay and General Schuyler to remain.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Stiffly.</i> If you wish it.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Taking chair from behind sofa and placing it <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">C.</abbr> <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</b> shakes hands with <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</b> and then sits.</i> Pray be seated, Mr. Jefferson.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</b> and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Jay</b> sit. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</b> to back of table.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</td>
						<td>Mr. Hamilton, I am compelled to ask you if you are acquainted——</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>It may facilitate matters if I say that I am acquainted with a man of the name of Reynolds.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Standing down <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr> in front of sofa.</i> James Reynolds.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>I'm not sure of his first name. He is hardly an intimate acquaintance of mine. I believe it is James. You probably know him as Jim. Won't you sit down? <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</b> does not hear him. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</b> repeats.</i> Won't you sit down?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Indicates large chair <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr> <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</b> crosses and sits. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</b> sits back of table.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</td>
						<td>The man Reynolds has placed in my hands certain letters which show that he has recently received from you considerable sums of money.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>You are apparently in his confidence, Mr. Monroe.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td>Those letters were brought to us unasked.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>I see. The letters were also uncalled for.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</td>
						<td>You say you are not intimately acquainted—what was that money paid for?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>May I be allowed to see the documents in question?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</b> takes them from his pocketbook, and hands them to <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</b>.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">After <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</b> has looked at a few of them.</i> What was that money paid for?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>Didn't your friend tell you—I mean before he was arrested for perjury?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Hotly.</i> He's not my friend! I never saw the man till he came to me on the subject of these letters.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>Are you sure?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td>Of course I'm sure!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Crosses his legs uneasily. Looks under seat.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>That is George Washington's chair!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Angrily pulls chair around to face <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</b>.</i> There seems to be no doubt that you paid him the money.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>There seems to be no doubt about that.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</td>
						<td>Mr. Hamilton, I should not be here if I had not been forced by the facts before me. But I cannot disbelieve the evidence of my own eyes. There are your letters proving that the money was paid to Reynolds, and we are compelled to ask you why you paid it.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>Who compels you to do that?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</td>
						<td>Our sense of duty, Citizen Hamilton.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>Duty to whom?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</td>
						<td>To the country—to the people—to the citizens of this Republic.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>This has nothing to do with the country or the people. This is my own private affair.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td>We know why you paid the money—Reynolds told us.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>Oh, you know, do you?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td>Yes, we know.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>Then you haven't come for information—but merely for the love of sport.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</td>
						<td>That money was paid out of the Treasury of the United States.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>It was paid out of my own personal account.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</td>
						<td>That we shall require to have proved. But you know what it was paid for.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>Yes, I know what it was paid for, and from what Mr. Giles says, you know also.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Opening drawer of table, drawer on <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr></i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</td>
						<td>I do. It was paid to this man that he might buy up the states' paper—the states' debts.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Stopping opening drawer quickly.</i> What do you mean?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</td>
						<td>That he might buy up the states' debts, for your benefit.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Rising.</i> What!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</td>
						<td>A stock-jobbing gamble.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jay</td>
						<td>Come, come, Mr. Monroe. You have only the man's word for that.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</td>
						<td>The word of a man who is arrested for perjury.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Turning to <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</b>.</i> Reynolds gives conclusive evidence that Mr. Hamilton gave him advance information of the proposed Government Assumption of States' Debts; that he gave him the money to buy up the paper at bargain prices; and that his share in the spoils will be five million dollars.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Turning to <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</b> and striking table.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Genuinely surprised.</i> So that's what he told you, did he? That's the reason for the whole—thing.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</td>
						<td>And there are the proofs of the money you gave him.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Pointing to paper in <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton's</b> hands.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">After a pause and looking through letters.</i> Thirty dollars—twenty-five dollars—one hundred dollars—— Very modest amounts for purposes of speculation.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jay</td>
						<td>Very.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td>Just as dishonest to steal ten dollars as ten millions.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</td>
						<td>You can't dodge, Hamilton. I owe it to this country to expose this damned business. You use your official information to rob the patriots who raised the money to save this nation!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jay</td>
						<td>No! No!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</td>
						<td>Mr. Monroe!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</td>
						<td>He makes them believe their loans will never be paid, and then he hires this man to buy up their claims—and hoodwinks us into passing his bill for him.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jay</td>
						<td>Senator Monroe, we entirely lack proof of this.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>Gentlemen—let us try to be frank with one another. You have come here to-day not because you believe me guilty of this accusation, not because you feel any duty to the public, but because you repent the bargain you made with me to vote for my bill. You are afraid of your own party. Your courage has failed you, and you believe this to be a tremendous opportunity to free yourselves from your promise. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</b> protests.</i> That is the true statement of fact, Mr. Jefferson, whatever you may think to the contrary. You dislike me—you are afraid of me—and this is part of an organized conspiracy to force me to resign, and so to end your difficulties. This is not the first time that you have accused me, but it is the first time that I have been unwilling to strike back at you. Time and again you have charged me with dishonesty in the Treasury. Three months ago you set the trusty Giles on to covertly accuse me of cooking the accounts. Within ten days, as you know, after going through endless records, I proved that there was no shadow of foundation for your accusation, and you slunk away whipped and defeated. And now here you are yelping at my heels again and ready to tear me to pieces. This time you are bolder. You come to me with an open accusation of absolute dishonesty. This accusation is based on the evidence of one James Reynolds, an obscure and worthless man. Had I desired to defraud the Treasury should I have been driven to the necessity of unkennelling Reynolds to assist me? Gentlemen, it is not a reasonable accusation. If I felt that you really believed that this was even remotely connected with my office, I should not hesitate to give you proof to the contrary. But you know that what you accuse me of has no foundation in truth. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Pause.</i> I admit that I had transactions with the man Reynolds <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">movement of interest from the others</i>, but they were of a private nature, and I swear that my connection with him is in no way bound up with my public office. I make an appeal to your sense of justice, and I ask you, gentlemen, to drop this investigation.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jay</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">After a slight pause.</i> In deference to Mr. Hamilton, I think, gentlemen, that should close the matter.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</td>
						<td>There is no question of the honor of Alexander Hamilton.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</td>
						<td>Mr. Hamilton has indeed made a very moving appeal.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</td>
						<td>If the facts are not as stated, why not tell us what they are?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>Because such disclosure would be useless to you and would cause much suffering to some who are very near and dear to me.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">As if about to rise.</i> Well, in that case, Citizen Hamilton——</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</td>
						<td>But I don't see how—— Do you mean it's a domestic affair?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Uneasily.</i> In a sense, yes.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</td>
						<td>Something that affects your wife?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Restraining himself.</i> Yes, sir. Something that affects my wife——</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">There is a moment of embarrassment. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</b> shows that he does not wish to proceed.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Rising.</i> Mr. Hamilton, as a trusted representative of the State of Virginia, I feel it my duty to ask you a few questions.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Looks at <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</b> hard for several moments and then sits. Great restraint.</i> Yes.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td>In the first place, in what way is your wife mixed up——</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Springing up and striking table. Furious.</i> Stop! There shall be no more of this. I am ashamed of the act that has led to this inquiry, but I am more ashamed of my cowardice in begging your charity. You shall have the facts. During the absence of my wife abroad, I became intimate with Mrs. Reynolds—— <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Sensation.</i> It doesn't matter how or where, but the thing happened—to my eternal disgrace. Since that night I have been paying hush-money to the man Reynolds. He has never ceased to blackmail me. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Taking letters from drawer.</i> Here are his letters with demands for money. They form the sequel to those which you now hold; and here are three or four love letters from Mrs. Reynolds, which I am sure you will enjoy reading.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Throwing them on table toward <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</b>, shutting drawer and moving across to extreme <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr> at back and back again.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Rising. Thunderstruck.</i> Alexander!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>Father, I have no excuse to make. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</b> picks up the letters and crosses quickly and shows them to <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</b>. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</b> turns away saying "No, no." <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</b> then turns to <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</b>. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</b> takes the letters and throws them on the table saying: "I prefer not." <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</b> comes back of table.</i> Since this accusation has been made I must insist on your reading all these documents. These are his—and these are hers. They both form part of the plot in which you are now involved. You will find no mention of state debts in them. Her letters are an attempt to drag me into a prolonged intrigue, and were necessary for the full effect of his blackmailing. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Looking at <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</b> who is standing <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">C.</abbr> between <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</b> and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</b>.</i> A conspiracy from beginning to end. A conspiracy to discredit Washington's administration and my office. Will you read them or do you condemn me to read them to you?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">He pulls off the tapes from her letters and is about to read.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Heard off <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr>, calling.</i> Alexander? <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">A moment of suspense. Enters door <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr></i> Alexander! Oh, I beg your pardon, gentlemen, I thought you had gone. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">The men rise and there is an awkward pause.</i> But this was to be my day with my husband. Won't you let him off till to-morrow? We've been parted so long, you know. Won't you, Mr. Jefferson?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">She is down <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr> in front of table. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Jay</b> moves to <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">C.</abbr> and meets <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</b> and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</b>. They make a group there. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</b> moves to <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr> in front of sofa. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</b> has worked across at back and is coming down <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr></i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Coming by <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr> of table to her rapidly.</i> In a few moments, dear—in a few moments, and then I'll come.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td>But you look so tired, dear—so tired and old. I've never seen you look old before.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>I've grown old in your absence, dear. I'll come in a few moments—very soon.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td>And we'll look at the shops—and you'll be my boy again.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Kisses her hand.</i> Yes, dear.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jay</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Coming to <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L. C.</abbr></i> I don't think we need to ask Mrs. Hamilton to withdraw. Our business is over, and I apologize for having kept him so long. You came to take the reins, eh, Mrs. Hamilton? I think I will go before you use the whip. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</b> has joined <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</b> by this time. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Jay</b> draws <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</b> away to <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">C.</abbr></i> I sincerely regret that you should have been subjected to this.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Down <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr> in front of table. By instinct.</i> Is something the matter, father?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">On her <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr> Tries to distract her attention.</i> It's all right, my dear; it's all right.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Quietly, to <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</b>.</i> Citizen Hamilton, I am heartily ashamed of having obtruded myself into this business. I give you my word that not one syllable of this shall ever pass my lips.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</td>
						<td>I'm sorry. I was misinformed . . . I apologize.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">They bow to <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</b> and he follows them as they move toward the door up <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr> <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</b> is conscious of something the matter, and lingers, although you see <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</b> is trying to get her away.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Who has been walking restlessly to and fro down <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr></i> Wait a minute, wait a minute! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">They all stop and turn. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</b> at door, <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</b> following. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</b> <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">C.</abbr> and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Jay</b> <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">C.</abbr> to <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr> Up stage.</i> I don't want to speak before Mrs. Hamilton, but this thing hasn't been brought to a satisfactory conclusion.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Coming back a few steps.</i> Surely there is nothing more to be said.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jay</td>
						<td>Mr. Hamilton has met you fairly and straightforwardly.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R. C.</abbr> in front of sofa.</i> I have nothing to say against Mr. Hamilton, but——</td>
					</tr>
					<tr class="together">
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jay<br/>
						Jefferson<br/>
						Monroe</td>
						<td>Sh-sh!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</b> comes down <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr> behind <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</b>.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Loudly and pugnaciously.</i> I won't be muzzled. I am a trusted representative of Virginia, and it is my duty to do the best for my state.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">C.</abbr></i> I think, gentlemen, we will not endeavor to restrain Mr. Giles in the execution of his duty.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td>If Mrs. Hamilton will be good enough to retire——</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</b> looks toward <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</b>, rather worried and scared.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>No, gentlemen, with your permission I shall ask my wife to remain.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Sensation. Slight pause. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</b> moves to chair <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr> of table but does not sit.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td>Oh, I see, you want to gag me.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>On the contrary, I am hoping that you will remove the seal from my own lips.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td>You mean that you want me to speak out?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Loudly and startlingly.</i> Yes, I want you to speak out.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Slightly taken aback by his tone.</i> Very well. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Moves to <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">C.</abbr></i> Alexander Hamilton, you don't like me, but I am going to prove to you that I am your friend. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</b> glances at him.</i> You don't believe it, but I am going to prove it to you. What would you say if the newspapers got hold of this story?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Slight movement from <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</b> and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</b>. They exchange a glance of disapproval.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>Which—my story or yours?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td>Now, it's no use getting personal—it isn't my story, it's Reynolds'. What would you say if the newspapers came out to-morrow with the story that the Secretary of the Treasury had borrowed the Nation's money to speculate with—to buy up the States' paper?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Looking at his wife, who has started and is being restrained by <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</b>.</i> For the moment, I don't know what I should say, Mr. Giles.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td>It wouldn't be any use trying to get your bill through then, not even with Jefferson and Monroe behind you. Public opinion would be too strong.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jefferson</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Coming in between <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</b> and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</b>.</i> Citizen Hamilton, you must excuse me. I cannot stand by while Citizen Giles continues in this way. I wish to express my regret that a representative of Virginia should behave in such a deplorable manner. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Bows to <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</b>.</i> I take my leave.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit door up <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr> and shuts door after him. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</b> is following but stops at room door as <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</b> speaks. Curtain warning.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Moving across to <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr> back angrily.</i> Well, Jefferson's words don't alter facts—at least not with me they don't.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jay</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L. C.</abbr> at back.</i> Is there any danger of the newspapers getting it?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Coming to <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">C.</abbr></i> There's more than a danger; it's a fact that the <i class="calibre14">Advertiser</i> has got the story and is going to publish it in to-morrow's issue, unless——</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">In front of chair <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr> of table.</i> Unless——</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td>I think it would be better if Mrs. Hamilton——</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>Mrs. Hamilton is your hostess. You said, "unless"——</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td>Well, unless of course, you deny it, which you couldn't very well because there are the proofs that the money was paid to Reynolds, and you can't explain why.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">After a pause and sitting.</i> You've got me, haven't you?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td>Now, Mr. Hamilton, if you will withdraw your Bill, I'll guarantee that the story shall not be printed.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Crossing to <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</b>.</i> I don't know what foundation you have for your false accusations against Colonel Hamilton, but he must not give up that Bill. He's worked and slaved, and gained the confidence of all the world with that in view, and he must not give it up!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>Can you bear the alternative, Betsy?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td>I must bear it.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>Can you bear that I, the Secretary of the Treasury, should be accused of cheating the people?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td>Bear it? Why, of course, because I know it isn't true.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Rising.</i> How do you know it isn't true?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td>What do you mean? Because I know you, Alexander.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Advancing to her.</i> Do you know me—do you?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td>Tell me what you mean?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Taking her by the arms.</i> Why don't you suspect me—why do you trust me?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td>Don't—don't! Tell me what it is. You can prove it isn't true.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>I can, but I dare not.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td>You dare not?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>I dare not tell the truth. I did pay certain sums of money.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td>What for? What did you pay it for?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>To keep from the light something of which I am ashamed—to hide something shameful from you.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Down <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr></i> Alexander, have you no feeling for your wife? Betsy, go——</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Stepping back from <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</b>.</i> Father, it's better that she should know. Betsy——</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</td>
						<td>You're not going to drag that woman——</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jay</td>
						<td>Oh! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">A moment of dead awful silence.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Turning dazed to <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</b>.</i> It's not a woman? <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">He bows his head. She turns to <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</b> and sees the guilt on his face.</i> Oh!——</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</td>
						<td>Betsy, my girl!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Lifting her head, dazed, but with a sense of pride.</i> Does any one else know?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Quietly.</i> Mr. Jefferson, that is all.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Looking at <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</b> and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Jay</b>.</i> Will they tell?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr class="together">
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jay<br/>
						Monroe</td>
						<td>No.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Slowly.</i> Then it need never be known.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td>Then you withdraw your Bill?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">With a great sudden outburst.</i> No—no—— I can't do it. I've done with bargains. I've bargained with my conscience long enough. I'm covered with shame and remorse, but I can't stand in the mud and barter what I believe to be America's honor. My Bill stands. Get out and tell your story, and I'll tell mine.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</td>
						<td>What'll you tell?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</td>
						<td>The truth! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Picking up letters.</i> The whole degrading, sordid truth. In to-morrow's newspaper I'll publish every fragment of evidence in connection with my disgrace with this woman. If there is to be dishonor, it shall fall on me and not on this administration. I sacrifice my office—I sacrifice my wife,—but, by God, Betsy, I can't sell my country. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">With a peremptory gesture to <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</b>.</i> Now go!!!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<p>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</b> goes toward door <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr> and the curtain falls quickly.</i>
							</p>
							<p>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b>Picture.</b>—<b epub:type="z3998:persona">Monroe</b> is going; <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</b>, <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">C.</abbr>, looking toward door; <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Schuyler</b> takes <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Betsy</b> in his arms. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Giles</b> is seen going through street door. He glares at <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Hamilton</b> and bangs the door after him.</i>
							</p>
							<p>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">
									<b>Curtain</b>
								</i>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
				</tbody>
			</table>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
