<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>II</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="frontmatter z3998:fiction z3998:drama">
		<section id="costumes" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2>Costumes</h2>
			<p class="calibre9">
				<span class="calibre12">
					<b class="calibre28">COSTUMES</b>
				</span>
			</p>
			<span about="#mwt6">
</span>
			<div about="#mwt6" class="wst-center">
				<p class="calibre9">ACT I</p>
			</div>
			<span about="#mwt6">
</span>
			<p about="#mwt6" class="calibre7"><span class="wst-gap"/><span class="smallcaps1">Jefferson.</span> Cutaway coat of period, dark, heavy material brown corduroy breeches and vest; top boots to knees, plain leather, not polished; stock and plain fall; three-cornered black hat; wig as in plates or paintings.<br class="calibre3"/>
			<span class="wst-gap"/><span class="smallcaps1">Monroe.</span> Dark green cutaway coat and breeches, light fancy vest; silk stockings, colonial shoes with buckles, stock and lace fall, three-cornered black hat; walking stick. Dark tie wig.<br class="calibre3"/>
			<span class="wst-gap"/><span class="smallcaps1">Giles.</span> Light brown corduroy, long square cut coat, knee-breeches, snuff-colored plaid vest, stock and fall and hat. Dark tie wig.<br class="calibre3"/>
			<span class="wst-gap"/><span class="smallcaps1">Tallyrand.</span> Cinnamon cutaway coat; silk vest, black silk stockings and white stripes, black silk knee-breeches, shoes; long black cane with tassel; large Napoleonic hat with black feather; white stock and elaborate lace fall; jewelry, chains, rings, etc. Auburn wig not tied.<br class="calibre3"/>
			<span class="wst-gap"/><span class="smallcaps1">Schuyler.</span> Wine colored coat and breeches; dark green flowered vest, silk stockings and shoes; stock and lace fall; three-cornered beaver hat trimmed with silk ribbon; walking stick, white tie wig.<br class="calibre3"/>
			<span class="wst-gap"/><span class="smallcaps1">Reynolds.</span> Prussian blue coat with tails; fancy flowered vest; buff colored riding breeches; top boots, plain leather; stock and fall; gray, three-cornered hat; dark tie wig.<br class="calibre3"/>
			<span class="wst-gap"/><span class="smallcaps1">Melissa.</span> Buff colored skirt, three-quarters length; short armed, black bodice, laced down centre; fancy apron; shoes and stockings.<br class="calibre3"/>
			<span class="wst-gap"/><span class="smallcaps1">Citizens and Quakers.</span> Costumes of period.</p>
			<span about="#mwt6">
</span>
			<p about="#mwt6" class="calibre7">
				<br class="calibre3"/>
			</p>
			<span about="#mwt6">
</span>
			<div about="#mwt6" class="wst-center">
				<p class="calibre9">ACT II</p>
			</div>
			<span about="#mwt6">
</span>
			<p about="#mwt6" class="calibre7"><span class="wst-gap"/><span class="smallcaps1">Hamilton.</span> Light gray moire silk coat and knee-breeches, lightish green fancy vest; handsome stock and lace fall, gray silk stockings and colonial shoes with buckles. Medium fair tie wig.<br class="calibre3"/>
			<span><span data-page-index="9" data-page-name="Page:Hamilton play 1917.pdf/9" data-page-number="ix" data-page-quality="3" id="calibre_link-15" title="Page:Hamilton_play_1917.pdf/9"/></span><span class="wst-gap"/><span class="smallcaps1">Schuyler.</span> As in Act I, with dark colonial cloak.<br class="calibre3"/>
			<span class="wst-gap"/><span class="smallcaps1">Zekiel.</span> Snuff brown long square coat trimmed with black and steel buttons; breeches of same material; black stockings and shoes.<br class="calibre3"/>
			<span class="wst-gap"/><span class="smallcaps1">Mrs. Whalen.</span> Long skirt, old dark material; short sleeved bodice of same; head-dress, a piece of worn-out lace; shoes and stockings.<br class="calibre3"/>
			<span class="wst-gap"/><span class="smallcaps1">Jefferson.</span> As in Act I.<br class="calibre3"/>
			<span class="wst-gap"/><span class="smallcaps1">Monroe. As in Act I.</span><br class="calibre3"/>
			<span class="wst-gap"/><span class="smallcaps1">Tallyrand.</span> Rich champagne colored coat with dark red velvet collar; yellow silk breeches; fancy vest of yellow material with pattern; yellow silk stockings; dark shoes; long white cane with tassel; champagne gloves; hat as in Act I.<br class="calibre3"/>
			<span class="wst-gap"/><span class="smallcaps1">Mrs. Reynolds.</span> Very low coat, cream colored gown of empire style without sleeves and of a very light filmy material with silk petticoat to match; stockings to match and shoes with straps across instep; dark blue cloak of light material with hood, lined with emerald green silk.</p>
			<span about="#mwt6">
</span>
			<p about="#mwt6" class="calibre7">
				<br class="calibre3"/>
			</p>
			<span about="#mwt6">
</span>
			<div about="#mwt6" class="wst-center">
				<p class="calibre9">ACT III</p>
			</div>
			<span about="#mwt6">
</span>
			<p about="#mwt6" class="calibre7"><span class="wst-gap"/><span class="smallcaps1">Betsy Hamilton.</span> Pale pink dress of fine light silk, low cut and without sleeves; shoes and stockings.<br class="calibre3"/>
			<span class="wst-gap"/><span class="smallcaps1">Angelica.</span> Street costume light brown silk with faint yellow plaid pattern; a dress of pale yellow voile which hangs in a panel down front; bodice with long sleeves and tulle trimming; large picture hat with tulle and marabou trimming; light blue silk shawl with black tassels and jet buttons on corners.<br class="calibre3"/>
			<span class="wst-gap"/><span class="smallcaps1">Hamilton.</span> Old rose suit of fine silk; fancy vest with delicate pink pattern; black hat and cane.<br class="calibre3"/>
			<span class="wst-gap"/><span class="smallcaps1">Jefferson.</span> Tight-fitting dark cutaway coat with knee-breeches and buff colored vest; black silk stockings and shoes; stock and lace fall and hat.<br class="calibre3"/>
			<span class="wst-gap"/><span class="smallcaps1">Monroe.</span> Slate gray coat and knee-breeches; light fancy vest.<br class="calibre3"/>
			<span class="wst-gap"/><span class="smallcaps1">Schuyler.</span> Dark green coat, flowered waistcoat; black silk breeches.<br class="calibre3"/>
			<span class="wst-gap"/><span class="smallcaps1">Giles.</span> As in Act I.<br class="calibre3"/></p>
			<span about="#mwt6">
</span>
			<p about="#mwt6" class="calibre7"><span class="wst-gap"/><span class="smallcaps1">Judge Jay.</span> Blue coat and breeches, gray vest; blue stockings, shoes; stock and fall; gray tie wig.<br class="calibre3"/>
			<br class="calibre3"/>
			<span><span data-page-index="10" data-page-name="Page:Hamilton play 1917.pdf/10" data-page-number="x" data-page-quality="3" id="calibre_link-16" title="Page:Hamilton_play_1917.pdf/10"/></span></p>
			<div about="#mwt14" class="wst-center">
				<p class="calibre9">ACT IV</p>
			</div>
			<span about="#mwt14">
</span>
			<p about="#mwt14" class="calibre7"><span class="wst-gap"/><span class="smallcaps1">Betsy.</span> Street costume of heavy dark blue silk with thin violet stripes; hat with feather, gloves and silk shawl.<br class="calibre3"/>
			<span class="wst-gap"/><span class="smallcaps1">Angelica.</span> Rich gown of heavy yellow silk with brocaded buff showing a panel in front of pale violet tulle; short sleeves to elbow with lace trimmings.<br class="calibre3"/>
			<span class="wst-gap"/><span class="smallcaps1">Hamilton.</span> Black velvet suit.<br class="calibre3"/>
			<span class="wst-gap"/><span class="smallcaps1">Colonel Lear.</span> Military costume of period.<br class="calibre3"/>
			<span class="wst-gap"/><span class="smallcaps1">Jefferson, Monroe, Schuyler and Jay.</span> As in Act III.<br class="calibre3"/>
			<span class="wst-gap"/><span class="smallcaps1">Mrs. Reynolds.</span> Long trailing skirt of white messaline with polka dot pattern and red stripe; light gray tight fitting bodice with red tulle shawl; light green bonnet with rose in front on long stem; large feather muff.</p>
			<span about="#mwt14">
</span>
			<div about="#mwt14" class="calibre3"/>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
